Gifts and Graces Rules     

GOAL:To provide students with a list of ideas for prayers and actions to help them grow in holiness.

OBJECT
The game is played until every Player has a list of 3 suggested Gifts and 3 Graces.

SETUP:
Run the game module and select from the play mode options.  The default selection is to start a new game on your local computer.  In this case, everyone shares the screen, keyboard, and mouse.

Alternatively, you can connect to other players online.  You can join a game hosted remotely by someone else or you can host your own game and invite others to join remotely.

Next, chose the Gifts and Graces version you wish to play (Lenten, Advent, or Rosary).  Each version has different Gifts cards and Graces cards which are specially chosen to suit the version.

Next, decide what colors the players want to use.  Up to five people can play at a time.  The person who has a birthday is closest to Mother’s Day goes first.  They select their color first and start the game.  You can also choose to take a turn as an observer. Observers do not participate in game play.

To start, click the "Start" button and the game board will expand and fill the screen.

On your turn, drag your color icon to the start square (in the lower left hand corner).

PLAY:
Click the spinner button. The game owner's name will show up in the dialog box along with a random number between 1 and 8.  The player advances his/her piece to the correct square which is the number of spaces on the board indicated by the spinners result.  Perform the action prompted on the square. When you land on a Gifts Card or Graces Card square open up your card container and drag and drop the card into the container. Do what is says on the card and click "End turn".

Play continues to that person’s right.

If the card pile runs out before each Player has a list of 3 gifts and 3 graces, the game is over; the player with the most cards wins.After the game is finished, each player may discuss their list with a teacher, parent, or guardian to decide what is truly feasible for their age level to achieve during the time period selected. At game’s end, all quarters used in the game can be donated to the missions, where every penny and prayer counts!